The steganography principle is unique from cryptography, the location where the meaning manufactured unreadable. In steganographic industry, the terminology possesses most of these identical adjectives set; stego along with deal with had been primary explained in a good Info Concealing Course that was held within Cambridge, The uk. "Embedded" files is the facts that is camouflaging from the deal with [128] files.The final result "stego" is the data which contains both; the "embedded'' and the cover signal.Logically, embedding is the process when the embedded data is hidden with the cover data by putting embedded data into it. Especially when the steganographic process is used on an image, the image used to cover it is called a container. The word "cover" here can refer to innocent original message data which maybe an audio, video, still or anything else.This might be represented because of the pursuing solution:
handle method + set concept + stego key method [39]
Three basic parameters of steganography are to make the message secure, robust, and capable.  Security can be refered to as the eavesdropper's inability in detecting the embedded information. Robustness is the degree of modification which the steganographic medium can handle before it destroys the hidden information. Capacity is the maximum amount of data which can be hidden under the cover medium.

1.1 Steganography Domains
Here we opt for restricting our discussion steganography techniques using image files only as carrier medium as image files are the most general medium for transferring confidential information on the internet. Other steganographic mediums like audio, video, etc are also efficient for concealing the secret data but they have considered as part of this work. As per the existing literature, there are two major domains to process image that is frequency domain and spatial domain steganography. With due course of time, third new domain of steganography named adaptive steganography has been evolved.

1.1.1 Spatial Domain Steganography Spatial sector steganography is usually a method when a exclusive concept can be encoded within the LSBs from the deal with picture. Depending on the number of Lowest Important Portions utilized to disguise the particular exclusive concept the capability involving deal with picture transporting the particular concept is going to be arranged keeping that in mind. But, the particular distortion also is additional within the stego picture in the event the size can be big. Despite the fact that spatial sector methods possess easy implementation nevertheless these kinds of approaches cannot simply cheat the particular Man Image Method (HVS). Therefore his or her imperception component is basically reduced.
1.1.2 Frequency Domain Steganography. This kind of website contains specific algorithms which often use discrete wavelet makes over (DWT), discrete cosine makes over (DCT) in addition to Fourier makes over (FT). Undoubtedly regularity website structured steganographic process cannot be very much successful inside cheating HVS however selecting the right set of coefficients which often have to be inserted in the exclusive chunks is very important mainly because specific DCT coefficient values tend to be delicate in comparison with various other values in the case of graphic distortion. And once coefficient values usually are not very carefully determined next graphic deformation can be very easily discovered together with undressed vision. Throughout algorithms dependant on DWT, it ought to be observed that will payload taken out may well not seem absolutely just like the set variation.

1.1.3 Adaptive Steganography. It can be easily seen from the discussion that both frequency domain and spatial domain methods have their own disadvantages and advantages. No doubt we get some benefits in the frequency category over spatial but the simpleness of the spatial domain cannot be disregarded. Most of the security gaps in the steganographic system are present because of certain statistics of steganographic image, reflecting or indicating the existence of certain hidden data in the image. There is another category of steganography, a third one called model based steganography also called adaptive steganography. It is implemented before the use of Least Significant bits. This category of steganography, called adaptive steganography as embedded data adapts according to given model and statistical awareness of steganography statistics of related images are analyzed before embedding the data.

1.2 SALIENCY MAP
Map Research on the characteristics of human vision shows that a majority of people can clearly comprehend only a small portion i.e. 2-5o of their visual angle.  Research results show that observer's scan paths are somewhat same, and also predictable to a certain extent. These kinds of research final results demonstrate the latest process for you to practice images/videos depending on people visible qualities: only encode a small amount of well chosen fascinating locations (attention regions) using large top priority to help keep very good summary excellent, as the fewer fascinating locations are generally taken care of using minimal top priority in order to save parts. Human vision and brain science has progressed a lot with time. Many computation attention models were proposed and there has been an improvement in understanding the biological method of selective attention of human vision [78, 77, 106]. In any of this attention model, low-level as orientation, intensity, motion, etc. will be extracted first, and then a saliency or attention map is generated through a combination of non-linear biological features. This generated map highlights the locations which are interesting and value of intensity of this map will represent the importance of attention. This attention map and under its guidance resources are non-uniformly allocated for improving subjective quality or saving the bandwidth [74, 73, 95, 33]. Estimation methods of saliency map can be broadly classified as based on biology. Usually, all methods work with a low-level approach to establish compare connected with picture regions relative to their particular surroundings, utilizing virtually any a number of highlights of strength, coloring, and angle.

1.3 Research Issues
1.	The main motive behind secure steganography is to avoid human perceptual attacks. For this, many researchers have proposed the schemes like edge embedding, region of interest based embedding and many other model based methods used for embedding so as to deceive the human visual system but never used a model which is totally representing the characteristics of human visual system or highlighting the regions in the image important for eyes of human beings.
2.	Saliency map is a map which is very well used for representing attention region of an image in accordance with human visual system. It is really strange that saliency map, which is representing the human visual system and which is also the basic need for secure steganography, has never been used for steganography in literature.

1.4 Objectives of Research Work
In this research work following objectives have been set.
•	To provide the community with state of art survey in the field of steganography
•	To study the capabilities of existing methods of image based steganography
•	To propose an enhanced saliency model which helps in increasing the imperceptibility of stego images
•	To apply the proposed saliency model for steganography
•	A bit allocation strategy to embed the secret data bits in image, based on proposed saliency map, has been designed.The intensity of stego pixel has been improved by using 2kcorrection method. The strength of steganography technique has been evaluated on various parameters like MSE, PSNR, quality etc.
•	To propose a strategy for retrieving the secret message from stego image with maximum accuracy and minimum 
